[[content-model]]
= Content Model

Uncontained.io guides help individuals, communities, and companies
embrace open source software. It explains not only how to accomplish a
task, but why you’d want to, and how that task fits into the larger
story of consuming, contributing to, and producing open source software
containers and related technologies.

This content was originally created and curated by Red Hat’s PaaS
Community of Practice, and covers topics that are very relevant to Red
Hat users, but it is not specific to Red Hat products.

For content that is specific to Red Hat products, see:

* docs.openshift.com - gets existing users unstuck and back to work
utilizing OpenShift Container Platform.
* access.redhat.com - support, documentation, and more about all Red Hat
specific products and services for all users.

Everything written in the guides should fall into one of the following
categories.

[[editorial-guides]]
== Editorial Guides

Editorial guides are long form documents that may have multiple
contributors that dive deep into a specific topic (for example,
``Getting Started with Containers'' or ``Installing a Highly Available
OpenShift Cluster''). They may contain visuals and anecdotes to
illustrate their point and may provide very opinionated guidance. While
meant to be read from beginning to end, they have a table of contents to
help the reader quickly skim the content and find a relevant subsection.

[[article-guides]]
== Article Guides

Article guides are short form documents, opinion pieces, ideas from
individuals on a specific topic (for example, ``Creating a Custom Role''
or ``Measuring success''). They may contain visuals and anecdotes to
illustrate their point.

[[tutorial-guides]]
=== Tutorial Guides

A tutorial is a specific type of article that has a specific expected
content structure.

[[design-elements]]
== Design Elements

If you’re writing an article or tutorial guide, here are some smaller
design elements that enrich the content experience. We use them to draw
the reader’s attention and break up walls of text; therefore, they
should all get some sort of visual treatment.

[[pull-quote]]
=== Pull quote

We use quotes in the guide to illustrate a point through an anecdote.
Pull quotes should highlight real people and their experiences.

[[image]]
=== Image

Images help visually illustrate a point. Some images are instructive,
such as a graph. Other images are visual, such as a webpage screenshot.
We should have lots of these.

[[data-vignette]]
=== Data vignette

Whereas pull quotes and images help ground ideas in something specific
and concrete, data vignettes help connect ideas to bigger systems.

Data vignettes are limited so as not to overwhelm, but contain just
enough information to help readers understand why they should pay
attention to a certain idea.

[[historical-vignette]]
=== Historical vignette

Historical vignettes are fun anecdotes that keep a reader’s attention.
They make community members the heroes of the story, and help pass down
cultural knowledge.

[[content-taxonomy-tags]]
=== Content taxonomy tags

Content taxonomy tags are categories or classifications (a term or
phrase) that is added to a web publication that relates the specific
publication to other contents that are similarly tagged.

[[tag-clouds]]
=== Tag clouds

A tag cloud (word cloud, or weighted list in visual design) is a visual
representation of text data, typically used to depict keyword metadata
(tags) on websites, or to visualize free form text. Tags are usually
single words, and the importance of each tag is shown with font size or
color.
